# SQLite based Minesweeper Field Renderer

This repository contains a solution for the "Minesweeper" exercise as described in Exercism's Kotlin track, but in sqlite.

## Introduction

The task is to transform an ASCII-Art representation of the mine locations in a minesweeper field to a full render of the field including the mine-counts.

e.g.:
Given input:
```
+-----+
| * * |
|  *  |
|  *  |
|     |
+-----+
```

Produce output:
```
+-----+
|1*3*1|
|13*31|
| 2*2 |
| 111 |
+-----+
```

The input board is provided line-by-line, in the form of INSERTs into the "input" view.  
Output is provided, again line-by-line as the "output" view.  
To reset the board, insert the line 'RESET' into input.

## Repository contents:
```
| tests        Unit tests
| schema.sql   The minesweeper-renderer implementation (views, tables, triggers)
| test.sh      Runner script for the unit tests
```

## Tests:
The `tests` directory contains several SQL files to insert example board input, as well as the expected output.

## Examples
```sql
INSERT INTO input(line) VALUES 
    ('RESET'),
    (' * * '),
    ('  *  '),
    ('  *  '),
    ('     ')
;
SELECT display FROM output ORDER BY rownum;
```
This should yield the output as described in the introduction.


```sql
INSERT INTO input(line) VALUES
    ('RESET'),
    ('     '),
    ('   ');
```
Since the rows in the field don't have the same length, this will fail with an error message.  
Additionally, the table field_info should contain a more detailled error message.


## How it works:

High level overview:  
* A `INSTEAD OF INSERT` trigger on the `input` table splits inserted ASCII-Art lines into cells with a position (row/column) and is_bomb status.
* The board representation generated by the trigger is stored in the `cells` table, and some metadata (board size, encountered errors) is available in `field_info`.
* An `output` view converts the contents of `cells` back into strings, returning one result row for each row of the minesweeper board.
